---
    updated_at: 03/06/2018
    title: Compact Living Policy
    subtitle: '04'
    order: 4
---

## 4a. Compact Living

Compact units are a promising model of development in Boston’s current housing context. Compact units have smaller square footages than is currently allowed by zoning. Given the increasing cost of living and expected population growth, compact units offer a cost- and space-efficient way of building more units to accommodate growing demand for housing. There are two primary goals for Compact Living, increased affordability and fostering community through common spaces that supplement smaller living quarters. 

Smaller unit sizes result in reduced living costs and economies of scale for developers that can lead to lower rents. Examples of common spaces include a lounge, laundry room, fitness room, common kitchen and dining room, workspace, or outdoor spaces. The City has also proposed a Compact Policy Parking and Transportation Demand Management Plan to reduce parking requirements based on the building’s distance from transit.

The square footage ranges under consideration are below:
Unit Type                    Compact Unit Square Footage Range   |    Existing Minimum Square Footage
Studio                       250-450 SF                          |     450 SF
1 Bedroom                    400-625 SF                          |     625 SF
2 Bedroom                    600-850 SF                          |     850 SF
3 Bedroom                    700-1,100 SF

For more information, go to the Resources section to see sample floor plans of these compact unit apartment sizes.

### Spotlight: UHU!

The City of Boston’s recently undertook a demonstration project, the Urban Housing Unit (UHU), touring the exhibit around the city and receiving feedback from over 2,000 community members. The City heard that residents are open to smaller living space in exchange for other things they value such as convenience of location and amenities. There is more information about the UHU in the Resources section.


### Resources and Next Steps:

The City of Boston’s Compact Living policy is currently in draft form and under review.
Learn more about the Urban Housing Unit (UHU) demonstration project here: https://www.boston.gov/departments/new-urban-mechanics/urban-housing-unit-roadshow 

Here are sample floor plans of the Compact Living units under consideration (get plans from Daniel).
X- Studio
X- 1 Bedroom
X- 2 Bedroom
X- 3 Bedroom
