---
    updated_at: 08/05/2018
    title: Introduction
    subtitle: ''
    order: 0
    icon_name: icons_info.svg
---

### Housing production is complex

But it doesn't have to be hard to understand!


This webapp presents four lesson-modules that explore aspects of housing production. Each lesson contains information about a specific topic in planning & development regulation, and then allows you to explore the implications of those regulations in a 3D visualization. 

Try spinning the scene by clicking and dragging your cursor in the right-hand window!


The first lesson, “What are the Basics?”, outlines the fundamentals of development regulations including size, density, and the permitting requirements.

The second lesson, “Balancing the Budget”, looks at the budget required to build new housing, and how that can be influenced by the intended affordability of apartments.

The third lesson, “What about Parking?”, showcases different options when it comes to off-street parking capacity, and how those options have different costs, and implications for the feasibility of a development and cost of housing.

The fourth lesson, “Compact Living”, offers the ability to test if different planning controls – in this case Boston’s new Compact Living Policy – could have an effect on housing affordability.


Finally, the last module allows you to choose any of the options in combination, so you can explore the full range of development scenarios, and uncover the trade-offs between affordability, feasibility, parking, or building dimensions. Which development do you think is best?

Once you have made it through, you can also access any of the lessons using the menu icon at the top left.

Let’s get started!

